README.md, before:

# Sharks!

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/GemaVNZ/Quest2.-Sharks/blob/main/assets/Shark.gif" alt="Descripción del GIF" width="700">
</p>

## Objective 🎯

The main objective of this project is to analyze and visualize shark attack data to gain insights into patterns and trends. 📊

## Functionality ⚙️

- 🧹 **Data Cleaning**: Process raw data to remove inconsistencies and prepare it for analysis.
- 📈 **Data Visualization**: Create visual representations of the data to identify trends and patterns.
- 📝 **Reporting**: Generate summary reports and figures to present findings.

## Tools Used 🛠️

- 🐍 **Python**: Main programming language used for data processing and analysis.
- 🐼 **Pandas**: Library for data manipulation and analysis.
- 📊 **Matplotlib & Seaborn**: Libraries for data visualization.
- 📓 **Jupyter Notebooks**: Interactive environment for data cleaning and visualization.
- 🌐 **Git**: Version control system for tracking changes and collaboration.

## Development Process 🚀

1. 📥 **Data Collection**: Gather raw data.
2. 🧹 **Data Cleaning**: Use Jupyter Notebooks to clean and preprocess the data.
3. 🔍 **Data Analysis**: Analyze the cleaned data to extract meaningful insights.
4. 📊 **Data Visualization**: Create visualizations to represent the data findings.
5. 📝 **Reporting**: Compile the results into summary reports and presentations.

## Results 📊

The analysis revealed several interesting patterns in shark attack data, including:
- 📅 Seasonal trends in shark attacks.
- 🌍 Geographic hotspots for shark activity.
- 🌦️ Correlation between shark attacks and environmental factors.

## Project Structure 📁

- `assets/`: 
  - `Shark.gif`: GIF file used in the README.
- `data/`: 
  - `data_raw/`: Folder to store raw data.
  - `data_cleaned/`: Folder to store cleaned data.
- `notebooks/`: 
  - `data_cleaning/`: Folder to store Jupyter Notebooks for data cleaning.
  - `data_visualization/`: Folder to store Jupyter Notebooks for data visualization.
  - `functions.py`: Python script with utility functions.
- `presentation/`: 
  - `PDF_presentation/`: Folder to store PDF presentations.
- `reports/`: 
  - `figures/`: Folder to store generated figures.
  - `summary_reports/`: Folder to store summary reports.
- `scripts/`: Folder to store Python scripts.
- `.gitignore`: File to specify intentionally untracked files to ignore.
- `README.md`: File to describe the project and how to set it up.
- `requirements.txt`: File to list the project dependencies.

## Project Presentation 🎤

The project findings were presented in a detailed canva presentation, which includes:
- 📋 An overview of the data analysis process.
- 🔍 Key insights and visualizations.
- 📊 Recommendations based on the findings.

## Project Members 👥

| Name       | GitHub Profile                           |
|------------|------------------------------------------|
| **Bruno** | [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/member1) |
| **Carlota Gordillo** | [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/carlotagordillo2) |
| **Gema Villena** | [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/GemaVNZ) |
| **Juan Duran** | [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/Jotis86) |
| **Rocio Romo** | [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/member5) |


## Collaborations and Suggestions 🤝

We welcome collaborations and suggestions to improve this project. Feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request on GitHub. 🐙

Commit message:

Update REAME and Sumary Report

README.md, after:

# Sharks!

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/GemaVNZ/Quest2.-Sharks/blob/main/assets/Shark.gif" alt="Descripción del GIF" width="700">
</p>

## Objective 🎯

The main objective of this project is to analyze and visualize shark attack data to gain insights into patterns and trends. 📊

## Functionality ⚙️

- 🧹 **Data Cleaning**: Process raw data to remove inconsistencies and prepare it for analysis.
- 📈 **Data Visualization**: Create visual representations of the data to identify trends and patterns.
- 📝 **Reporting**: Generate summary reports and figures to present findings.

## Tools Used 🛠️

- 🐍 **Python**: Main programming language used for data processing and analysis.
- 🐼 **Pandas**: Library for data manipulation and analysis.
- 📊 **Matplotlib & Seaborn**: Libraries for data visualization.
- 📓 **Jupyter Notebooks**: Interactive environment for data cleaning and visualization.
- 🌐 **Git**: Version control system for tracking changes and collaboration.

## Development Process 🚀

1. 📥 **Data Collection**: Gather raw data.
2. 🧹 **Data Cleaning**: Use Jupyter Notebooks to clean and preprocess the data.
3. 🔍 **Data Analysis**: Analyze the cleaned data to extract meaningful insights.
4. 📊 **Data Visualization**: Create visualizations to represent the data findings.
5. 📝 **Reporting**: Compile the results into summary reports and presentations.

## Results 📊

The analysis revealed several interesting patterns in shark attack data, including:
- 📅 Seasonal trends in shark attacks.
- 🌍 Geographic hotspots for shark activity.
- 🌦️ Correlation between shark attacks and environmental factors.

## Summary Report 📄

For a detailed summary of the data analysis, including visualizations and key insights, please refer to the [Summary Report](https://github.com/GemaVNZ/Quest2.-Sharks/blob/main/reports/sumary_report.md).

## Project Structure 📁

- `assets/`: 
  - `Shark.gif`: GIF file used in the README.
- `data/`: 
  - `data_raw/`: Folder to store raw data.
  - `data_cleaned/`: Folder to store cleaned data.
- `notebooks/`: 
  - `data_cleaning/`: Folder to store Jupyter Notebooks for data cleaning.
  - `data_visualization/`: Folder to store Jupyter Notebooks for data visualization.
  - `functions.py`: Python script with utility functions.
- `presentation/`: 
  - `PDF_presentation/`: Folder to store PDF presentations.
- `reports/`: 
  - `figures/`: Folder to store generated figures.
  - `summary_reports/`: Folder to store summary reports.
- `scripts/`: Folder to store Python scripts.
- `.gitignore`: File to specify intentionally untracked files to ignore.
- `README.md`: File to describe the project and how to set it up.
- `requirements.txt`: File to list the project dependencies.

## Project Presentation 🎤

The project findings were presented in a detailed canva presentation, which includes:
- 📋 An overview of the data analysis process.
- 🔍 Key insights and visualizations.
- 📊 Recommendations based on the findings.

## Project Members 👥

| Name       | GitHub Profile                           |
|------------|------------------------------------------|
| **Bruno** | [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/member1) |
| **Carlota Gordillo** | [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/carlotagordillo2) |
| **Gema Villena** | [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/GemaVNZ) |
| **Juan Duran** | [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/Jotis86) |
| **Rocio Romo** | [GitHub Profile](https://github.com/member5) |


## Collaborations and Suggestions 🤝

We welcome collaborations and suggestions to improve this project. Feel free to open an issue or submit a pull request on GitHub. 🐙
